docs/source/observational_data/file_format.rst, before:

File Format
===========

The file format used for the :mod:`velociraptor.observational_data` functionality is
described below. These files are simple HDF5 files that can be opened using
:mod:`h5py` or some other module, and so are easily portable to different systems.
They are designed to be both human and machine 'readable' to enable maximal
re-use throughout many projects.

You are free to write your own reader/writer for this data, but the other
sections in this documentation showcase python tools already written to
perform such tasks.

HDF5 Fields
-----------

The required fields in a file are given here:

.. code-block:: bash

	file_name.hdf5
	├metadata
	│ └6 attributes:
	│   ├bibcode: 'Bibcode - available from e.g. ADS'
	│   ├citation: 'Short citation (e.g. X et al. 2019)'
	│   ├comment: 'Free-text comment describing e.g. IMF choices'
	│   ├name: 'Short name that is easily recognised'
	│   ├plot_as: 'points' or 'line' - plot as either markers or a line
	│   └redshift: 0.0 - floating point number
	├x
	│ ├2 attributes:
	│ │ ├comoving: True/False
	│ │ └description: 'Short description of axis, e.g. galaxy stellar mass'
	│ └values	[float64: N]
	│   └2 attributes:
	│     ├unit_registry: Generated by unyt automatically
	│     └units: 'String units, e.g. Msun'
	└y
	  ├2 attributes:
	  │ ├comoving: True
	  │ └description: 'Short description of axis, e.g. galaxy stellar mass'
	  ├scatter	[float64: N (or 2XN), OPTIONAL] - scatter in this dimension.
	  │ └2 attributes:
	  │   ├unit_registry: Generated by unyt automatically
	  │   └units: 'String units, e.g. Msun'
	  └values	[float64: N]
		└2 attributes:
		  ├unit_registry: Generated by unyt automatically
		  └units: 'String units, e.g. Msun'

Commit message:

Updated docs on adding cosmology to information

docs/source/observational_data/file_format.rst, after:

File Format
===========

The file format used for the :mod:`velociraptor.observational_data` functionality is
described below. These files are simple HDF5 files that can be opened using
:mod:`h5py` or some other module, and so are easily portable to different systems.
They are designed to be both human and machine 'readable' to enable maximal
re-use throughout many projects.

You are free to write your own reader/writer for this data, but the other
sections in this documentation showcase python tools already written to
perform such tasks.

HDF5 Fields
-----------

The required fields in a file are given here:

.. code-block:: bash

	file_name.hdf5
	├cosmology
	│ └9 attributes:
	│   ├H0: H0 in km/s/Mpc
	│   ├Neff: Effective number of neutrino species
	│   ├Ob0: Omega baryons: density of baryonic matter in units of the critical density at z=0.
	│   ├Ode0: Omega dark energy: density of dark energy in units of the critical density at z=0.
	│   ├Om0: Omega matter: density of matter in units of the critical density at z=0.
	│   ├Tcmb0: CMB temperature at z=0
	│   ├m_nu: Masses of neutrino species (size 3)
	│   ├m_nu_units: Neutrino mass units
	│   └name: Name of this cosmology (e.g. WMAP7)
	├metadata
	│ └6 attributes:
	│   ├bibcode: 'Bibcode - available from e.g. ADS'
	│   ├citation: 'Short citation (e.g. X et al. 2019)'
	│   ├comment: 'Free-text comment describing e.g. IMF choices'
	│   ├name: 'Short name that is easily recognised'
	│   ├plot_as: 'points' or 'line' - plot as either markers or a line
	│   └redshift: 0.0 - floating point number
	├x
	│ ├2 attributes:
	│ │ ├comoving: True/False
	│ │ └description: 'Short description of axis, e.g. galaxy stellar mass'
	│ └values	[float64: N]
	│   └2 attributes:
	│     ├unit_registry: Generated by unyt automatically
	│     └units: 'String units, e.g. Msun'
	└y
	  ├2 attributes:
	  │ ├comoving: True
	  │ └description: 'Short description of axis, e.g. galaxy stellar mass'
	  ├scatter	[float64: N (or 2XN), OPTIONAL] - scatter in this dimension.
	  │ └2 attributes:
	  │   ├unit_registry: Generated by unyt automatically
	  │   └units: 'String units, e.g. Msun'
	  └values	[float64: N]
		└2 attributes:
		  ├unit_registry: Generated by unyt automatically
		  └units: 'String units, e.g. Msun'
